# CS-330
My coursework for the CS-330 Computer Graphics and Visualizations course at SNHU.

1. How do I approach designing software?
- Design played a huge role in this project, beyond the design of objects and scenery, as it was also essential to the creation of the code. Still, the project mainly helped improve my design skills for 3D environments, as it was essential to start with a well-known design and follow it as closely as possible, avoiding major changes. This project taught me how important it is to create a design as a reference for how the 3D environment should look and function, ensuring that all aspects of the project stay on track. Only slight deviations were made from the initial design, and they were considered carefully. During the initial stages, I learned how important it was to stay as close as possible to the initial design, since even the smallest changes, such as adjusting an object's size or position, could alter the entire environment and potentially harm the project's outcome. Other aspects of the project also helped me further improve my skills, as shown mainly in the project's code. As the project advanced, I determined it was important to ensure that all code remained reusable and encapsulated to avoid unnecessarily long methods or difficult-to-read code. Thus, I chose Object-Oriented Programming for this project, as it allowed me to create reusable methods to avoid dry code and to encapsulate all object-related functionality in a single place, making the code easier to read. In the future, I plan to use this approach to help improve my software by ensuring that a design is already determined and in mind before attempting to create code, and that when the time comes to implement the design, it is done so in a way that promotes easier changes, better readability, and the potential to reuse parts of the code. In the end, the project's emphasis on always having a design planned and on creating code using a paradigm, such as Object-Oriented Programming, can help ensure the project is easier to manage and understand.
2. How do I approach developing programs?
- The development process during this project was helpful, as it showed how important it is to focus on one aspect of the project at a time and continue building on it to ensure no aspect is rushed or overlooked. By adding a single element to the project every week, such as creating an object in the scene or adding textures to an object, it provided helpful feedback that could be applied going forward to either fix previous tasks or improve new ones. One of the most helpful recommendations I received during this project was to find ways to reduce the main render function to avoid overcrowding the single method, as this would make project management harder. Thus, feedback like this made me realize how important it is to get code reviewed by others to catch overlooked issues and find better ways to solve problems. Iteration played a large part in this strategy, and it made me realize how important it is to continue to back up work and to add features and improvements to a project slowly. Attempting to change too many factors of the project at once can make it difficult to identify where issues are occurring. Hence, solving tasks or problems one at a time and confirming that the project continues to work with the new changes is essential. The milestones show my progress in learning the importance of iteration and in applying feedback as I made improvements before adding new features to the project. Even though this process took more time, it ultimately made for a better project, as I was given the chance to make smaller, more beneficial changes, rather than attempting to apply all necessary changes at once, which would have resulted in a more time-consuming and less helpful process. Overall, this project helped me further develop my approach to software design by emphasizing the importance of receiving feedback from others and of slowly adding to a project to ensure that any new features or additions work in tandem with all existing features, avoiding potential problems in the future.
3. How can computer science help me in reaching my goals?
- Before this course, I viewed 3D graphics as something challenging and difficult to learn, but this course has reinforced my belief that anything can be learned and used effectively if one gives time and effort to it. Even though I had no intention of learning to use 3D graphics in the future, I am now eager to learn more and find other ways to use them in projects, whether for websites or desktop applications. Having the chance to experience what 3D graphics can accomplish and to discover how it can be learned, given the appropriate time and effort, will make me excited to continue learning more topics and to find ways to apply what I learn. As stated above, one of my biggest takeaways from this project is the importance of avoiding unexpected or unplanned changes, as even the smallest change to a design can lead to major issues later. Any changes made need to be thought out and planned beforehand. For this project, I decided to change the size of one of the objects in the scene, and while the change worked on initial viewing, adding more objects to the scene revealed that it ruined the positioning of all other objects and failed to match the initial scene. Even though the change appeared to work initially, it affected all new features going forward and required me to go back and rework most of the progress I had already made to fix the issue. In the end, all parts of the development process provided a helpful learning experience, whether it was practicing project design, researching how to solve specific tasks, or reviewing to ensure that all existing features were properly implemented.
